Hi there.
I'm Marie Reinsborough-Wadden,
and I'm the school counselor here
at Marshview Middle School.
Best job in the universe.
And I'm here today to talk about career
connected learning, and specifically
a really wonderful program that we have
here called Career Day at Marshview.
So what it is, it's really beautiful.
We're very lucky and fortunate
where we are in that
we have a very involved, larger community
than just our school.
We're in Sackville, New Brunswick,
in the Tamar area, right beside Mount
Alice University, and so right beside Fort
Folly as well, First Nation.
So we just have just
in that quick definition, you can see that
we have already automatically,
just by nature of the location,
so many potential invitations to invite
community members into our school.
So through that,
what we've done is we've started
Career Day where students have a choice.
I've had to limit it.
It could be much bigger than this,
but they have a choice between 15
different community members who will come
into the school and share their career.
Adventure is what we call it.
So they talk about the specific role
that they have, how they came to that
role, the education that they've you know,
enjoyed that process to get there.
They also talk about
we make sure that they talk about,
how math is involved in their work,
how literacy is involved
in the work that they do.
So we definitely try to embedded
into the curriculum as well.
What it is,
is a chance for students to look at a list
of 15 different opportunities.
And there's such a wide range.
We have chefs who come in,
we have different trades who come in.
We have as petitions
like it's all over the place.
We have lots of university professors.
We're really fortunate that way.
So students get to look at this list
of 15 different potential ways
that they might want to like, explore,
like that adventure
for the, for themselves.
And then they're given
it's narrowed down to three.
So they spend the afternoon listening to
for like 30 minutes each
as it's like a deep conversation
from a trusted mentor
about their career journey
that they have been on.
It's beautiful.
And what's really lovely about it, too,
is that students are automatically engaged
because they have chosen to hear
about that specific person's journey.
Yeah.
Well, so it's we have been doing
this program for a few years now,
and my biggest reflection would be
that people want to get involved.
People really want to have an open door
school, right?
We're really fortunate that many of
our volunteers are what they started off.
We would reach out to family members,
parents, guardians, etc.
to come in,
but since then it's really grown.
So I already have community members
reaching out to me like, oh,
I know that crater is coming up,
so I just wanted to let you know
I'm available for these dates, right?
So that should be like a lovely,
wonderful reflection point for me.
And that once you launch a program
and then you have
if you have trust in the community,
it really is kind of beyond what you even
imagined, which is really wonderful. So